Meta-monitoring based active series limiting (#5520)
thanos-io/thanos: docs/components/receive.md

With such configuration any receive listens for remote write on `<ip>10908/api/v1/receive` and will forward to correct one in hashring if needed for tenancy and replication.

## Limiting

> Thanos Receive, in Router mode, supports limiting tenant active series, to maintain stability of the system. It uses any Prometheus Query API compatible meta-monitoring solution to get the current number of active series, and compares that with a configured limit, before ingesting any tenant's remote write request. In case a tenant has gone above the limit, their remote write requests are failed fully.

Author: Do you mean we should mention something like "meta-monitoring should scrape all Thanos Receive instances"? 🙂 
Will add that!

But as for how to set up meta-monitoring solution in general, I think that would vary by use case.

> Thanos Receive, in Router mode, supports limiting tenant active series, to maintain stability of the system. It uses any Prometheus Query API compatible meta-monitoring solution to get the current number of active series, and compares that with a configured limit, before ingesting any tenant's remote write request. In case a tenant has gone above the limit, their remote write requests are failed fully.

Author: "Meta-monitoring" under the Thanos docs [Operating](https://thanos.io/tip/operating/) section would be a good idea, and it could specify how to set up meta-monitoring for different Thanos architectures. This would probably need a dedicated different PR. 🙂

> Thanos Receive, in Router mode, supports limiting tenant active series, to maintain stability of the system. It uses any Prometheus Query API compatible meta-monitoring solution to get the current number of active series, and compares that with a configured limit, before ingesting any tenant's remote write request. In case a tenant has gone above the limit, their remote write requests are failed fully.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5520/commits/b647b541e4202fd6c91967fad20f35f2a94a8363

> This can used by specifying the following flags,

Reviewer: nit (passive voice): 

```suggestion
To use the feature, one should specify the following flags:
```

- `--receive.per-tenant-limit`: Specifies the total number of active series for any tenant, across all replicas (including data replication), allowed by Thanos Receive.
- `--receive.limit-meta-monitoring.url`: Specifies Prometheus Query API compatible meta-monitoring endpoint.
- `--receive.limit-meta-monitoring.query`: Optional flag to specify PromQL query to execute against meta-monitoring.

> - `receive.limit-meta-monitoring.http-client`: Optional YAML file/string specifying HTTP client config for meta-monitoring.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `--receive.limit-meta-monitoring.http-client`: Optional YAML file/string specifying HTTP client config for meta-monitoring.
```

NOTE:
- It is possible that Receive ingests more active series than the specified limit, as it relies on meta-monitoring, which may not have the latest data for current number of active series of a tenant at all times.

> - Thanos Receive performs best-effort limting. In case meta-monitoring is down/unreachable, Thanos Receive will not impose limits.

Reviewer: typo: 
```suggestion
- Thanos Receive performs best-effort limiting. In case meta-monitoring is down/unreachable, Thanos Receive will not impose limits.
```

With such configuration any receive listens for remote write on `<ip>10908/api/v1/receive` and will forward to correct one in hashring if needed for tenancy and replication.

## Limiting

Thanos Receive, in Router or RouterIngestor mode, supports limiting tenant active or HEAD series, to maintain stability of the system. It uses any Prometheus Query API compatible meta-monitoring solution to get the current number of active series, and compares that with a configured limit, before ingesting any tenant's remote write request. In case a tenant has gone above the limit, their remote write requests are failed fully.

> Meta-monitoring in this context refers to an external monitoring system scraping all Thanos Receive instances and exposing them in an API compatible with the Prometheus Query API.

Author: Yes, have mentioned this in: https://github.com/thanos-io/thanos/pull/5520/commits/a8449564cda0fd8e139a9e7443090dfcdb443fdb

With such configuration any receive listens for remote write on `<ip>10908/api/v1/receive` and will forward to correct one in hashring if needed for tenancy and replication.

> ## Limiting

Reviewer 3: Shall we mention this is an experimental feature? I assume since we're hiding the flags for now.

Author: Sure!
